Project Abstracts:

A Comparative Social Media Study: Are applications with self-deleting features the new preference?:
Applications designed for social media that use "self-deleting" features allow users to post content that automatically gets deleted after a certain amount of time, as opposed to more traditional applications that keep content online by default. We are interested in studying how applications that have "self-deleting" features affect users’ decisions to post certain
content, compared to more common applications. We narrowed down our study to Snapchat, a popular social media application with a default "self-deleting" feature for all its content, and Facebook, another widely used application that permanently keeps content online. Our study analyzes the different ways people use these applications by having them participate in a two-part study. This study looks at their decisions to specific compromising scenarios and tests their ability to control their privacy settings. Our results suggest that the majority of participants feel more secure about content posted to applications with "self-deleting" features, leading them to trust them more and share more compromising content.

IoT and Shodan:
The number of Internet of Things (IoT) devices being used in the wild has been increasing at an alarmingly high rate in the past few years. Given the range of recent cyber attacks like the Mirai botnet exploiting vulnerabilities in vulnerable webcams, understanding how IoT devices can be compromised and how to protect them from such attacks is an important consideration. We  utilize the Shodan search engine to extract different classes of IoT devices visible to the Internet and to understand how attackers can find and exploit -them. In our project, we focus on smart-home devices and their characteristics and vulnerabilities through analyzing Shodan search results. 

LabManual - Bro Network Security Monitor:
This lab provides a basic understanding of Bro, a network security monitor. You will learn how to configure the Bro tool and utilize it in a real-world situation. In the days of data breaches, it is important to ensure that systems have network security monitors installed on their systems as both a detective and a preventative measure. This lab focuses strictly on Linux distributions. We deal with three machines – Good, Bad and Ugly. As shown in the Lab Network Map, there are two internal machines (Good, Ugly) and one external machine (Bad). Bad is the attacker, sending malicious injects to the Ugly. The Bro tool is located on Good to detect the malicious activity happening within the internal network.

Mobile Browser Fingerprinting:
Browser fingerprinting has been primarily performed by fingerprinting the software stack such as the browser info, plug-ins, fonts and, to some extent, using the hardware specification information provided by the browser. However, studies have shown that their reliability is fairly low when fingerprinting mobile devices. Recently, techniques have emerged which fingerprint the mobile device hardware such as accelerometer, gyroscope, microphone and magnetometer. We present two hardware fingerprinting techniques and one software fingerprinting technique which can be used to augment the existing fingerprinting libraries to improve reliability of mobile fingerprinting and even differentiate between devices with the same software stack.

Performance Monitoring System:
Every educational institution has the responsibility of assessing the performance of students throughout the duration of course. Also to maintain the quality of education, teacher?s performance is to be monitored. Interaction between teachers and students is vital for quality education. So institutes strive to encourage this interaction. Institutes have their own methodology for above mentioned things. But it is noticed that institutes have separate systems to do this. The above mentioned criteria?s are symbiotic in nature and a single system to address all three will prove more efficient and yield better output. The project proposes a system that assesses the performance of students based on various criteria and along with that gives the performance appraisal of teachers. It integrates the platform for interaction thus implicitly encouraging interaction. For formative assessment of students, system proposes a unique Interactive MCQ based exam.

Evaluation of Students Performance based on Formative Assessment using Data Mining:
This paper proposes a system for performance assessment of students and explores how formative and summative assessment can be used to assess the performance. Proposed system focuses on formative assessment during the learning process. Computer based interactive Multiple choice question exam is proposed for formative assessment and the data generated is used for data mining. Paper discusses about the importance of detailed and instant feedback in learning process and the reduced workload on instructor in the proposed system.




